engine: consolidate troubleshooting to single page (#20039)
docker/docs: content/config/daemon/troubleshoot.md

---
title: Troubleshooting the Docker daemon
description: Learn how to troubleshoot errors and misconfigurations in the Docker daemon
keywords: |
  docker, daemon, configuration, troubleshooting, error, fail to start,
  networking, dns resolver, ip forwarding, dnsmasq, firewall,
  Cannot connect to the Docker daemon. Is 'docker daemon' running on this host?

> tags: [ Troubleshooting ]

Reviewer: Looks like we need aliases for 

- /engine/install/troubleshoot/
- /storage/troubleshooting_volume_errors/

   64 bytes from 192.168.1.2: seq=0 ttl=41 time=7.597 ms
   64 bytes from 192.168.1.2: seq=1 ttl=41 time=7.635 ms
   64 bytes from 192.168.1.2: seq=2 ttl=41 time=7.660 ms
   64 bytes from 192.168.1.2: seq=3 ttl=41 time=7.677 ms
   ```

### Turn off `dnsmasq`

{{< tabs >}}
{{< tab name="Ubuntu" >}}

If you prefer not to change the Docker daemon's configuration to use a specific
IP address, follow these instructions to turn off `dnsmasq` in NetworkManager.

1. Edit the `/etc/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.conf` file.

2. Comment out the `dns=dnsmasq` line by adding a `#` character to the beginning
   of the line.

   ```text
   # dns=dnsmasq
   ```

   Save and close the file.

3. Restart both NetworkManager and Docker. As an alternative, you can reboot
   your system.

   ```console
   $ sudo systemctl restart network-manager
   $ sudo systemctl restart docker
   ```

{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab name="RHEL, CentOS, or Fedora" >}}

To turn off `dnsmasq` on RHEL, CentOS, or Fedora:

1. Turn off the `dnsmasq` service:

   ```console
   $ sudo systemctl stop dnsmasq
   $ sudo systemctl disable dnsmasq
   ```

2. Configure the DNS servers manually using the

>    [Red Hat documentation](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-US/Red_Hat_Enterprise_Linux/6/html/Deployment_Guide/s1-networkscripts-interfaces.html).

Reviewer: Looks like this is linking to RHEL 6 docs, which is really old; I haven't read the link, but sounds like something that we should point to more current docs (and review if this content is still relevant 🤔)

Author: Updated to a version 9 link... where the description for this seems more up to date.

{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

> ### Allow access to the remote API through a firewall

Reviewer: Perhaps this is content that should be part of the "allow remote access" to the API 🤔

I'm slightly on the fence how much we should document this though, as exposing the API remotely is always a big security risk; more so because this section is thin on risks (e.g. it mentions "or 2375 if you're not using TLS - which effectively means "give the world root access" 😬) 🤔

Author: Yeah... I moved this section to the more appropriate doc (not really troubleshooting). That doc contains a strong warning about this already.

see
[Understand the risks of running out of memory](../containers/resource_constraints.md#understand-the-risks-of-running-out-of-memory).

### Kernel compatibility

Docker can't run correctly if your kernel is older than version 3.10, or if it's
missing kernel modules. To check kernel compatibility, you can download and run
the
[`check-config.sh`](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/docker/docker/master/contrib/check-config.sh)
script.

```console
$ curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/docker/docker/master/contrib/check-config.sh > check-config.sh

$ bash ./check-config.sh
```

The script only works on Linux.

### Kernel cgroup swap limit capabilities

On Ubuntu or Debian hosts, you may see messages similar to the following when
working with an image.

```text
WARNING: Your kernel does not support swap limit capabilities. Limitation discarded.
```

If you don't need these capabilities, you can ignore the warning.

You can turn on these capabilities on Ubuntu or Debian by following these
instructions. Memory and swap accounting incur an overhead of about 1% of the
total available memory and a 10% overall performance degradation, even when
Docker isn't running.

> 1. Log into the Ubuntu or Debian host as a user with `sudo` privileges.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Log in to the Ubuntu or Debian host as a user with `sudo` privileges.
```
